Porting guides (#651)
Bandwidth/api-docs: site/docs/numbers/porting/lnpChecker.mdx

---
id: lnpChecker
title: Check number(s) portability
slug: /numbers/guides/porting/lnpChecker
description: How to check number(s) portability
keywords:
  - bandwidth
  - numbers
  - porting
  - portin
  - port-in
  - port
  - lnp
  - portability
  - checker
  - check
image: ../../../static/img/bandwidth-logo.png
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

export const accountId = "{accountId}";
export const orderId = "{orderId}";

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
    <span
      style={{
        backgroundColor: color,
        borderRadius: '2px',
        color: '#fff',
        padding: '0.2rem',
      }}>
      {children}
    </span>
  );

> A number or set of numbers can be checked to see if they can be ported into the Bandwidth Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a smoother porting experience, you can check to see if your numbers are portable to the Bandwidth Network, before submitting a port order.
```

:::info

> As an alternative to individual porting the `/bulkPortins` API eliminates the need for the `/lnpchecker` API by sorting the list of TNs automatically into a set of port-in requests by Port Type. For more details follow the [How to Bulk Port](/docs/numbers/guides/porting/createBulkPortins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/bulkPortins` API eliminates the need for the `/lnpchecker` API by sorting the list of TNs automatically into a set of port-in requests by Port Type. For more details follow the [How to Bulk Port](/docs/numbers/guides/porting/createBulkPortins).
```

:::

> TNs can be ported in a single `/portins` request if all the following are true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For all TNs in a `/portins` request, all of the following must be true:
```

> TNs can be ported in a single `/portins` request if all the following are true:

Reviewer: Should this be in the Create Port-in section?

Author: I put it in both porting and lnpchecker article because lnpchecker and porting are both parts of the same flow and user may enter the flow documentation from both ends, makes sense?

1. They all have the same Port Type (see the `Port Types` section below)

> 2. Telephone numbers all have the same losing carrier (toll free telephone numbers all have the same losing RespOrg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. They all have the same losing carrier (toll free telephone numbers all have the same losing RespOrg)
```

3. They are all associated with the same billing TN and Service Address

> :::caution

Reviewer: Please move line 49 - line 58 (caution box) to line 187 (after the code examples)

> There are also a number of reasons why a TN may not be able to be ported in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some cases that you won't be able to port in a TN:
```

* The TN is in a rate center that is not supported by Bandwidth or any of Bandwidth's partners.
* The TN is an off-net TN, and the account is configured to support tier zero (on-net) only.

> * The TN belongs to a losing carrier that Bandwidth does not have a Trading Partner Agreement with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The TN belongs to a losing carrier with whom Bandwidth does not have a Trading Partner Agreement.
```

* The TN is already being processed in another active port-in order.
* The Bandwidth account has not been enabled for porting.
Otherwise, the user must separate the TNs into individual `/portins` requests.
:::

### Port Types

> Port Type - is a categorization of how the TNs submitted to the /lnpchecker API will be handled by Bandwidth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Port Type is a categorization of how the TNs submitted to the /lnpchecker API will be handled by Bandwidth. 
```

Reviewer: Should this be in the create port-in section?

Author: Not sure, I put it here because definition references the lnpChecker api rather then porting. Also the table which describes port types is also in the same lnpChecker article

            <TnList>
                <Tn>9198675309</Tn>
            </TnList>
        </LosingCarrierTnList>
        <LosingCarrierTnList>
            <LosingCarrierSPID></LosingCarrierSPID>
            <LosingCarrierName>Unknown</LosingCarrierName>
            <LosingCarrierIsWireless>false</LosingCarrierIsWireless>
            <LosingCarrierAccountNumberRequired>false</LosingCarrierAccountNumberRequired>
            <LosingCarrierMinimumPortingInterval>10</LosingCarrierMinimumPortingInterval>
            <TnList>
                <Tn>9195551234</Tn>
            </TnList>
        </LosingCarrierTnList>
    </SupportedLosingCarriers>
</NumberPortabilityResponse>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl">

```cURL
Note: Remember to add authentication for your application if needed!

curl 'https://dashboard.bandwidth.com/api/accounts/{accountId}/lnpChecker?fullcheck=true' \
-X POST \
-U '{BANDWIDTH_USERNAME}:{BANDWIDTH:PASSWORD}' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/xml' \
-d '<NumberPortabilityRequest>
    <TnList>
        <Tn>9195551234</Tn>
        <Tn>9198675309</Tn>
    </TnList>
</NumberPortabilityRequest>'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Where to next?

> Now that you have learnt how to check numbers portability, check out some of the available actions in the following guides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have learned how to check the portability of a number, check out some of the other available actions in the following guides:
```

> - [How to create Port in request →](/docs/numbers/guides/porting/portingNumbers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [How to create a Port-In Request →](/docs/numbers/guides/porting/portingNumbers)
```

        borderRadius: '2px',
        color: '#fff',
        padding: '0.2rem',
      }}>
      {children}
    </span>
  );

For a smoother porting experience, you can check to see if your numbers are portable to the Bandwidth Network, before submitting a port order.
:::info
The `/bulkPortins` API eliminates the need for the `/lnpchecker` API by sorting the list of TNs automatically into a set of port-in requests by Port Type. For more details follow the [How to Bulk Port](/docs/numbers/guides/porting/createBulkPortins).
:::

For all TNs in a `/portins` request, all of the following must be true:

1. They all have the same Port Type (see the `Port Types` section below)
2. They all have the same losing carrier (toll free telephone numbers all have the same losing RespOrg)
3. They are all associated with the same billing TN and Service Address

### Port Types

Port Type is a categorization of how the TNs submitted to the /lnpchecker API will be handled by Bandwidth.

| Port Type       | Description                               |                                   |
|:----------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|

> | MANUAL | `MANUAL` (for all port types starting with `MANUAL`) indicates that if the TNs cannot be ported automatically, the Bandwidth LNP team will work with the appropriate porting vendor or losing carrier to ensure completion of the port-in. The /portins API can be used to submit manual port-ins, which will be identified as such, and a Zendesk ticket will be automatically created to notify the Bandwidth LNP team. |

Reviewer 2: Change "Zendesk" to "support" - I prefer not to indicate a vendor implementation in the guide for something like this when we can.
